#  Objects!

Objects are representations of things
Programmers are writing code to represent real things. Objects translate real world to data and is written in object literal syntax.
```
Let dog = {
color: 'snickerdoodle',
age: 3,
'breed': mutt,
}
```
Objects define things exactly as written and are unordered
Object keys are always strings, but if the key has no spaces in it, you can omit the quotations

Objects are useful for putting similar things together and can contain multiple items and concepts such as arrays, functions, state, etc.

You can get the properties of an object with either dots or brackets:
*using the dog example above*
-`dog.age` OR `dog[age]` would give me **3**
-`dog.color` OR `dog[color]` would give me **snickerdoodle**
Dot notation is quicker and nicer, while bracket notations tends to be more flexible, meaning Dot notation needs to be more exact in what is trying to be accessed. Some keys cannot be represented using dot notation, and trying to use them causes syntax errors.

You can set the properties of an object by added `=`:
-`dog.weight = 40` would add and set the property `weight` in the object to `40`
-`dog[demeanor] = "good boy!"` would  add and set the value of `demeanor` to `"good boy!"`

Objects can be complicated and included deeply nested data structures

`Object.keys` is a special function that takes any object and returns an array containing that object's keys

All keys are strings, even `null`,`undefined`, `''`, `false` & `true`.
Numbers can get converted but tend to react in funky ways, which is why when numbers are involved, arrays are much better and easier to use.

The keyword `delete` can be used to remove key-value pairs.
-`delete dog.weight` would remove weight from the object, some dogs are just fluffy and don't need that type of negativity.
-`delete` is not a function!
You can also use null and undefined to "fake delete" values, while keeping the key.
-`dog.weight = null` or `dog.weight = undefined` would change the value of weight from 40 to `null/undefined`, this can then be accessed and changed further

## ARGV, Menu LAB & ore fun with Objects
Argument Vector or `process.argv` is all the commands entered in to the command line. Used as a way pass arguments into a js program.
`node order.js burger fries shake` passes the `burger fries shake` arguments into the program `order.js`
```
let order = process.argv.slice(2)
//waits for the argument from the command line, slices off the node and order.js to clean
let menu = {
  burger: 5,
  fries: 3.5,
  shake: 1.11,
  salad: 4.25
}

let orderPrice = 0

order.forEach((item) => {
  orderPrice += menu[item]
} //  a fat arrow function that works within the forEach method
//checks if argument is in menu object and adds them together, which resets the orderPrice value and prints the to the console below
console.log("Your order total is $" + orderPrice)
```
*Your order total is $9.61* is what should print to the console.

Object Instance Methods are function attached to an object as a property
```
let stringUtils = {
  capitalize: function(word) {
    return word.charAt(0).toUpperCase() +
      word.slice(1).toLowerCase();
  },
  rant: function(opinion) {
    return option.toUpperCase() + '!!!';
  }
}
```
You will be able to call these functions but using dot notation
-`coolObject.coolFunctionTwo(argument)`

# M-E-T-H-O-D Man

**A method is a function attached to an object as a property and as JS is a dynamic language, you can add methods to any object**
Going back to the stringUtils example
-`charAt()`, `toUpperCase()`, `slice()` & `toLowerCase()` are all methods used with the `capitalize` function within the object

`this` is a method that points to object state.
```let rectangle = {
    height: 10,
    width: 8,
    area: function() {
        return this.height * this.width;
    }
}

rectangle.height   //=> 10
rectangle.area()   //=> 80
```
`this.height` on the inside of the object means the same as `rectangle.height` on the outside