# React
React is a JavaScript library from Facebook, that makes web design so much easier!

Components are individual pieces of a web page interface like:
- a user profile
- a comment
- a form
- an up-vote button
- or any isolated part of a larger user interface

## Virtual DOM
React controls the rendering of the page by using something called the Virtual DOM. What this means in practice is that React keeps a copy of the web page structure and state in memory. This copy is accessible to JavaScript which React uses to make changes to the real DOM as a batch update.

## DOM Components
Imagine an application with several parts.
- User home page
- Profile photo
- Description
- Links to other web pages
- Uploaded photos
- Social feed
- Trending topics

## Auto Updates
For every change in the components React:
- Records any changes within a time slot.
- Calculates the interdependencies between components.
- Generates the next state of the interface.
- Renders the frame to the browser.

## REACTing to changes
This lets you as the programmer:
- Declare the page you want.
- Decide how to handle change when it occurs.
- Delegate to React how to build the page for you when changes happen.

## Declarative UI
React lets you to declare what you want the page to be. Declarative means that you do not instruct the computer about what steps to take in order to achieve your desired result.

## Declarative vs Imperative
Declarative is different than Imperative code which:
- Requires a sequence of ordered steps
- With transitions between the states
An imperative example would be manipulating the DOM like this:
```
// When the Winow 'load' event fires, run the following JavaScript
(window.onLoad = function() {
  // Create the H1 Element
  const heading = document.createElement('h1');
  // Create the Text node and content
  const text = document.createTextNode('Hello DOM!');
  // Add the Text node to the parent H1
  heading.appendChild(text);
  // Add the H1 Element to the Body Element
  document.body.appendChild(heading);
})()
```

## React Form
Given a `<root>` element exists the result is:
```
<div>
  <form id="my-form">
    <input id="create" type="text" placeholder="something"/>
  </form>
</div>
```
But when the form initiates a onSubmit event React will handle the changes using the handleSubmit handler function.

## The State Object
Every React component keeps track of its own state in an internal object named state. In a class based component you can access state through this.state. In a functional component you have to use Hooks to access state.

React likes to be in complete control of the page so it's important to only update the page through state, and never through direct DOM manipulation!

## Lifecycle Methods
Class based components also have access to a component's lifecycle methods. These are methods which get called at certain points during the component's life.

The most common of these are:
- `componentDidMount` fires when the component is first loaded onto the page
- `componentDidUpdate` fires whenever props or state are updated
- `componentWillUnmount` fires right before the component is removed from the page

## JSX
JavaScript Extended, you can use JSX
- mixture of HTML and JavaScript
- Looks a lot like HTML
    - but you can escape to JavaScript with culy braces `{}`
- Slightly different syntax in some cases
- Makes building the UI easier
- Bound by HTML tags
- Is transformed into ReactDom code
- Is used everyday in React

This is JSX Code:
```
ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, React!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```

## ReactDOM function API
Accepts a description of the components that make up the page, and what DOM node to render the results to.
```
// Render function on ReactDOM
ReactDOM.render()

// API signature
ReactDOM.render(
  element,
  container,
  [callback] /* Optional*/
)
```
`element` => The DOM element and children to generate.
`container` => What DOM element to generate within.
`callback` => Optional function to call after generation.

[apiMDNDocs](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-api.html#createelement)

## React.createElement function API
Accepts an element type, props of the element, and child elements.
```
// CreateElement function on ReactDOM
React.createElement()

// API signature
React.createElement(
  type,
  [props], /* Optional*/
  [...children] /* Optional*/
)
```
`type` => A DOM element name like `div`, `form` or `h1`.
`props` => The element attributes like `id`, `class`, `placeholder`, `onChange`, or `onSubmit`.
`children` => Child elements to nest within the generated element.

## React Summarized
React allows you to:
- Write JavaScript that builds HTML
- Write functions that update the HTML when state changes
- Delegate responsibility over the DOM to a library
- Be confident that the desired application state will be achieved

## ReactDOM code
This is the ReactDOM code the JSX creates
```
ReactDOM.render(React.createElement(
  'h1',
  null,
  'Hello, React!'
), document.getElementById('root'));
```

## HTML in the DOM
```
<div id="root">
  <h1>Hello, React!</h1>
</div>
```

## Key Concepts
- JSX feels like HTML (inside of JavaScript)
- JSX compiles to ReactDOM code
- JSX is a 'syntax extension' to JavaScript
- React can only render a single JSX component
    - but that component can have as many children as you want
- ReactDOM builds the HTML from the virtual DOM

## JSX can embed JavaScript expressions
- When writing JSX you can escape back to JavaScript using curly braces `{}`
- Any JavaScript expression can be used in JSX
    - but if the expresion doesn't return anything, nothing will be displayed

# Setting up React

## Create React App
There is a very useful package called `create-react-app` which will automatically install all your required dependencies, and set up a directory for your react app automatically.

## Using Create React App
1. Install Create React App globally `npm install -g create-react-app`
2. From the command line type `npx create-react-app app-name`
This will create a directory for the front end of your app called app-name. Inside that there will be a package.json file with all the scripts you need to create a react app, run it locally, and build a production version of that site.

## Directory Structure
There are two main parts of the create-react-app directory:
- The src folder
- The public folder
If you create a production build with npm run build you will additionally have a build folder. More on that when we talk about serving React projects next week!

## Core Concept: the src folder
The src folder is where the meat of your React project lives
- Create a JS file for each component
- Import components where needed
- The `App.js` file lays out the whole page
- `index.js` draws the content to the page
- CSS for your project also goes in here

## Core Concept: the public folder
The public folder is where your react component gets drawn to.
- Contains `index.html`
- Displays the front end of the app
- Keep images you want to display in here
- Don't tweak the HTML!