# DOM

The DOM is Document Object Model, Document is the HTML page, Object Model is the way of describing page elements

JavaScript isn't actually editing your document. It is simply modifying the DOM. You can think of the DOM as an editable copy of your read-only website, which stays pristine on your server or filesystem.

Core Objects are Node, Element, Text, Comment, Attributes

The BOM or Browser Object Model, is the window itself, or global window variable:    
    -`window.location`
    -`window.navigator`
    -`window.history`
    -`window.screen`
    -`window.frames`
    -`window.document`

Methods:
    - `open()`, `close()`
    - `moveTo()`, `sizeTo()`
    - `alert()`, `prompt()`, `confirm()`
    - `setTimeout()`, `setInterval()`

Window v Document
    Document is the page, window is the stuff around the page
```
window === document // => false
window.location === document.location // => true
```

Global JS functions are properties of `window`
Core JS functions are methods of `window`

## Locating HTML Elements
The easy way is `document.getElementById('article')`
The hard way is to traverse the document tree using DOM Node methods

## Adding HTML
Programmatically add HTML with JS
```
let target = document.getElementById('someElement')

let paragraph = document.createElement('p')
paragraph.textContent = "I’ve seen things you people wouldn’t believe. Attack ships on fire off the shoulder of Orion. I watched C-beams glitter in the dark near the Tannhauser gate. All those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain."

target.appendChild(paragraph)
```

## Altering HTML
Target an element through a DOM query and assign it to a variable .Use the reference to the element to manipulate existing properties or add entirely new properties.

## Stylin' and Profilin'
THe style property acts like a hash with properties for most CSS attributes.
CSS uses dashes; JavaScript uses camelCase
    - `div.style.backgroundColor = "#FF0000";`

## Events
When a user does something, it generates an evente.g. click on a button
The *target* is the element that was affected
the *event* is an object describing the details
the *listener* is a function you wrote
"listener" is just another name for "callback" (for events)
also called "handler"

## Return False
If the event listener returns false, all further processing stops
This usually used to stop a form from actually submitting after a handled submit event

## Types of Events
- Mouse - mousedown, mouseup, click, mouseover, dblclick, etc.
- Keyboard - keydown, keypress, keyup
- Window - load, unload, beforeunload, ready (jQuery only), abort, error, resize, scroll, contextmenu
- Form - focus, blur ("blur" should probably have been "unfocus," but we're stuck with it now), change, select, submit, reset

# DOM Scripting

"Scripting" is a term used when you're writing programs that don't do much on their own; instead scripts usually use other, more advanced programs, or are embedded within them.

"DOM Scripting" means using JavaScript to manipulate the DOM (page elements and contents) inside a web page, either during page load, or in response to user events, like clicking a button or selecting text.

## Scripts as Attributes
The easiest and most direct way to execute JS in a Page
```
<button name="button" onclick="alert('Did you organize and add comments!')">
    I want a good grade!
</button>
```

## the script tag (no src)
Without a `src` attribute, it defines a script and immediately executes its code:
```
<script>
  var message = "Add more Comments!!!"
  alert(message)
</script>
```

## the script tag (src)
With a src attribute, it loads code from a separate file, and and immediately executes it:
`<script src="tictactoe.js"></script>`

## `document`

In a DOM script, the current page is always available via the global variable named document. In addition to providing many useful functions, it also provides some properties such as: `document.URL` and `document.location`, etc.

## Elements by ID
If an element has an id attribute, you can get a pointer to that element with a single line of code:
`let element = document.getElementById(id);`

## Element by CSS Selector
`let element = document.querySelector('main div.preview > p')`
This returns the first Element within the document that matches the specified selector (in this case, the first `<p>` that is a direct child of any `<div class='preview'>` that is in the main section).

## Using an Element
Once you find an element (using getElementById or any other way), you can start using it.
```
let header = document.getElementById('header')
let text = header.textContent
```
There is also a property called innerText but it's confusing and implemented differently in different browsers.

## Nodes v Elements
In the DOM, the term "node" means almost any item that you can find in the document tree.

## OTher Node Types
An element is a particular type of node, and it's the most common, but beware, these are also nodes `Document`, `Element`, `Text`, `Comment`, `CDATASection`, `ProcessingInstruction`, `DocumentFragment`, `DocumentType`, `Notation`, `Entity`, `EntityReference` and all of them have their own properties that are not part of the basic Node set.

## Other Ways to find elements
In addition to getting a single element by its id or a CSS selector, you can also ask the document to give all elements that match a certain criterion.
-`let elements = document.getElementsByClassName('profile-picture')` by CSS Class name
-`let elements = document.getElementsByTagName('h2')` by Element name
-`let elements = document.querySelectorAll('h2.preview > p')` by CSS Selector expression

## Events as functions
In JS, event handlers are callback functions. The classic example of an event handler is "onclick", i.e. "please call this function when the user clicks this button".
To attach an event handler:
1. Find the element, e.g.:
    - `let button = document.getElementById('Add Notes');`
2. Attach the callback, like this:
    - `button.addEventListener('click', () => { alert('Abracadabra! By Adding Notes and comments, my readability grade went up!') });`

## Events by Reference
If you have already defined an event handler function, you can attach it by reference, like this:
```
<button type="button" id="magic">Magic</button>
<script>
function sayMagicWord() {
    alert('Shazam!');
}
let button = document.getElementById('magic');
button.addEventListener('click', sayMagicWord)
</script>
```
This calls the function `sayMagicWord` when the listener is attached and tries to attach the return value of `sayMagicWord` (which will likely be undefined).

## Event Parameters

An event handler function can optionally accept a parameter -- usually called event (or just e) -- that contains [lots of information about the thing that just happened].

An event object has many properties but the most important one is event.target, which points to the element where the action took place.

For instance, for a click event, event.target contains a pointer to the element that was clicked.

## Event Bubbling & Capture

Events are created by their elements, after creation they move up the chain by default, this behavior can be changed by using cancel on the listener

# Event Listeners (continued)

## Different types of Events
- keyup
- keydown
- click
- load
- submit
- [And More](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events)

## Event Listeners Using DOM Queries and JS

- you can write JS in `<script>` tags
- use DOM queries to target HTML elements
- call the `addEventListener` method
- pass the listener the event you want
- pass a callback function
