# Debugging

An easy-to-read visual representation of your DOM will open, which can be modified and analyzed to track down any code that may be of issue. Both CSS properties and HTML elements can also be added, removed, or modified to determine their impact on specific elements of your web page.

## Grab a Second Set of Eyes!!!
Often staring at thousands of semi-colons and angle brackets can be overwhelming and mind-numbing. A second set of trained eyes can help to find that pesky character that is breaking your code.

## Use a Linter!
A linter is a program that assesses code in order to locate any possible errors.

## Browser Debugging

Used for client-side coding

If you're running a program through your browser most modern browsers (i.e. Chrome, or FireFox) have built in debugging tools you can use:        
    -Chrome
        - Windows - `ctrl` + `shift` + `i` or right click and select `inspect`
        - Mac - `cmd` + `option` + `i` or `option` + click and select `inspect`
    -Firefox
        - Windows - `ctrl` + `shift` + `c`
        - Mac - `ctrl` + `option` +  `c`

## Breakpoints
Chrome: In the dev tools, navigate to the Sources tab (to the immediate right of the console). Select the file you want to debug, click on the line number where you want to add your breakpoint
Firefox: In the dev tools, navigate to the Debugger tab (to the immediate right of the console tab). Select the file you want to debug from the Sources section, click on the line number where you want to add your breakpoint

Once you've added a breakpoint run your code, and step through the section by clicking the step over button or pressing f10.

If you've stepped through your code, and are still having issues finding where the errors are coming, or you find yourself traversing through previously unknown code there are several things you may want to try: Disable extensions. Run in 'incognito' mode to make sure you're not caching bad code. Try running the code in a different browser. Try running it in a 'pristine' browser (a fresh install with no extensions or settings changes)

## Anchors

- Two opposite purposes
    - Link
        - `<a href="">`
    - Name
        - `<a name="">`
        - Using Anchor tags to name things is less common
        - `id=""` attributes do the same thing as using a name tag
    
## Anchor Links

- Anchor tags create links to other locations
    - sometimes within the same page
        - `href="#someId"`
    - other pages within the same site
        - `href=/somePage.html`
    - sometimes external pages
        - `href="https://www.example.com"`

# Forms

## Forms contain inputs

- `<form>` elements contain input events
    - user enters data into inputs
    - user clicks "Submit"
    - the browser will send info to the server

## Forms are Semantic
- forms wrap _input_ elements
    - may also be _included_ within other styled elements
- by default `<form>` is an _inline_ element
    - you can wrap a `<form>` in a `<div>` to turn it into a block element
    - you can apply styles to the wrapper 
        - forms have a lot of default properties

## Form attributes

- `method` corresponds to the _first word_ in the HTTP protocol
    - "GET" is the default
        - there are also "POST, PUT, HEAD, DELETE"
- `action` is the server path to submit the form

## Form Methods: GET vs POST

- `GET` means "bring me a page"
- `POST` means "take these parameters(then return me a page)"

>`Get` is reading `POST` is writing

## Form Elements

- `<label>` 
    - semantic element that lets a screen reader know what text goes with what input
- `<input>` 
    - where the functionality comes from in your from
    - there are different _types_ 
        - such as:
            - submit
            - text
            - password
            - email

## Intercepting Forms with JavaScript
- JS code can add a _submit event handler_
    - `onsubmit`
- function will be called after clicking "Submit"
    - but before the data is sent to the server
    - allows you to modify the data sent to the server
    - if the form is only to be used by JS you need to do one of these:
        - `<form href="#">` in HTML
        - `event.preventDefault();` in JS

## Form as Input
- easiest way to use a form on a website is with
    - `<input type="text">`
    - `<input type="submit">`



