# Server Vs. Client JS

Code syntax is very similar between the two

- have different roles and responsibilities
- run inside of different environments
- mostly different languages (except JS)

## The Client/Server Model

- **client** is any part of the web app the user interacts with
    - web pages
    - forms
    - images
    - interactive elements

- **server** listens for requests and sends responses
    - mostly just listeners and rules
    - runs in a node.js environment if JS

## Client Side Code

- appearance and functionality of a webpage
    - from validation
    - selecting UI components
    - creating layouts
    - nav bar
    - DOM manipulation

- often referred to as *frontend*

## Server-side Code

- deals with choosing the information that is sent to the browser
    - validating form submissions
    - saving, updating, deleteing, or reading from a database
    - running logic
    - returning a web page and resources
    - creating and returning a web page dynamically

- can be written in PHP, Python, Ruby, NodeJS(JavaScript!)
- referred to as **backend**

# Hello, File!

- Create a directory called `hello-express`
- cd into it
- run `npm init -y` to create a fresh `package.json`
- run `npm install express` to load in express
- launch VSCode in `hello-express`
- make a file named `server.js`

- Put the following code into `server.js`

```
const express = require('express')
const app = express()
const port = process.env.PORT || 5000

app.get('/', (request, response) => {
  response.send('Hello, World!');
})

app.listen(port, () => console.log(`Listening on port ${port}!`))
```

## Hello, Localhost!

- in the terminal run `node server.js`
- go to http://localhost:5000

## Hello, Package!

a *package file* contains information about how to build and run your app

in your folder you should have a file named `package.json` and it will have a 

```
"scripts":{
    "test":"echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
},
```

Add the following to your `"scripts"` object:

```
"start": "node server.js",
```

## Hello, Git!

We want to make sure that we do not push our node modules to git so create a file called `.gitignore` and add the line `node_modules` to that file.

Run the following commands from the correct directory

```
git init

git add .

git commit -m "initial commit"
```

## Hello, Heroku!

To push to heroku use

```
heroku create

git push heroku master
```

if it goes well you should see a URL in your console that looks similar to:

```
remote: https://damp-retreat-99529.herokuapp.com/ deployed to Heroku
```

## Parameters in Express

`:` means "this is a path parameter

Express will grab the *value* from the path itself, and assign it to `request.params` to use later


>Example: `http://localhost:5000/Gandalf` will print "Hello, Gandalf!"

## Middleware

- Middleware helps extract the bodies
    - it has access to `request` and `response` objects
    - runs before the route is executed
    - can be customized

## Body Parameters in Express

- `express` comes with middleware right out of the box!
    - `express.urlencoded()` parses the `request` body for you

- the data will be available as `request.body`
    - `request.body` doesn't come from the URL like `params` or `query`

## Other Middleware

- `body-parser` parses incoming bodies
- `express.urlencoded` parses incoming requests with URL-encoded payloads
- `express.json` parses incoming requests with JSON
- `express.static` serves static files

Middleware can be directly inserted into individual routes so they only run on those specific cases

## Write your own Middleware!

- We can customize our own middleware that
    - a function will have access to the `request` and `response` objects
    - and uses a callback function `next` which tells it to carry on with the routes execution

# Parameters

## Overview
When sending information to a server, like navigating the web is wont to do, it is important to understand a few things how that information can be sent. As with most things in programming, it isn't a one-size-fits-all approach.

These are dependent upon the method, like GET or POST.

## Passing Parameters
You can pass parameters in a number of ways:
- on the Path: (between the hostname and the ?)
- in a GET request's "query" section: (after the ?)
- in a POST request in JSON format: (inside the request body)

##For Example...
Let's imagine three different ways to send the same information to GitHub.com:
```
{
  user: "BurlingtonCodeAcademy",
  repo: "til",
  section: "blob",
  branch: "master",
  filepath: "/README.md"
}
```

## Path Parameters
path parameters are great for making legible URLs. Your URL is part of your user interface; treat it like the address of a resource!
This path: `http://github.com/BurlingtonCodeAcademy/til/blob/master/README.md`
would match this route in `express: js app.get('/:user/:repo/:section/:branch/:filepath',(req,res)=>{ console.log(req.params) })`
)

## Query Parameters
Query Parameters use the same URL slot as normal queries, but use a particular format to encode multiple parameters into a single string. This should sound familiar from our lesson on URLS.
`github.com/file?user=BurlingtonCodeAcademy&repo=til&section=blob&branch=master&filename=README.md`

This would be available to an express server like so:
```
app.get('/?user=BurlingtonCodeAcademy&repo=til&section=blob&branch=master&filename=README.md',(req,res)=>{
  console.log(req.query)
})
```
This is admittedly a little convoluted to look at. You're sure to have seen it at some point, however, especially in search engines where the long strings of text can be handled by the browser.

## Post Parameters
The other HTTP method used for passing parameters is POST. POST is implicitly more secure, as the information isn't sent directly to the server through a super-visible URL. Instead, it is contained in a post body when the information is JSON formatted.
```
POST /file 
{"user":"BurlingtonCodeAcademy","repo":"til","section":"blob","branch":"master","filepath":"/README.md"}
```
assuming the proper middleware is in place, this information would be available in express like so:
```
app.post('/file',(req,res)=>{
  console.log(req.body)
})
```

## Summary: GET vs POST
remember, HTTP defines several methods (GET, POST, PUT, HEAD, etc...)
GET requests - Query Parameters are in the URL, after the ? - format: name=value&othername=othervalue - plus weird escaping rules (percent-encoding and space-to-plus)

POST requests:
- Post Parameters are in the body of the request
- Can also be big file uploads, or a JSON format payload, or others

## Additional Concept: REST
The concept of "path parameters" is central to an idea called REST.
It argues that people designing web applications should consider their apps URLs to be an essential part of their app's design and functionality, and that those URL paths should follow a convention that exposes parts of the app as resources that can be identified and interacted with individually using a common set of methods (that happen to be more or less the same as the HTTP methods).